*This project has been created as part of the 42 curriculum by jsouza*

# Push_swap

## Description
### Madatory
Push Swap aims to sort a stack of integers (stack a) using an auxiliary stack (stack b) and a set of predefined operations. The challenge is to implement and optimize an algorithm capable of sorting the stack using as few operations as possible.

### Bonus
The bonus part of Push Swap consists of implementing a program (known as "checker") that verifies whether the sequence of operations generated by Push Swap successfully sorts the stack.

## Instructions
### Compilation
To compile the mandatory part of the project, run:
```bash
make
```
To compile the bonus part of the project, run:
```bash
make bonus
```

### Execution
#### Mandatory
After compilation, you can run the program as follows:
```bash
./push_swap [list of integers]
```
Examples of valid usage:
```bash
./push_swap 1 5 -3 2 0 +7 6
./push_swap "1 5 -3 2 0 +7 6"
./push_swap "1 5 -3" 2 0 "+7 6"
```
Examples of invalid usage (these will return an error):
```bash
./push_swap                  # no numbers provided
./push_swap 1 5 hello -3 2 0 +7 6   # contains a non-integer argument ("hello")
./push_swap hello            # only a non-integer argument
./push_swap 1 5 -- 3 2 0 +7 6   # double minus not valid number
./push_swap 1 5 -3 2 0 +1 6    # duplicate numbers (+1 and 1)
./push_swap 1 5 -3 2 0+7 6     # invalid number format ("0+7" is not a valid integer)
./push_swap 1 2 3 4 2147483648   # integer overflow (above max int)
./push_swap 1 2 3 4 -2147483649  # integer underflow (below min int)
```
You can also execute the program with a random list using:
```bash
ARG=$(seq [quantity] | shuf); ./push_swap $ARG
```
#### Bonus
If you want to execute the bonus part, after compiling, run:
```bash
./push_swap [list of integers] | ./checker [same list of integers]
or 
ARG=$(seq [quantity] | shuf); ./push_swap $ARG | ./checker $ARG
```
This will check if the sequence of operations generated by push_swap correctly sorts the stack.

You can also run the checker manually:
```bash
./checker [list of integers]
```
In this case, you will need to enter the operations manually (press Enter after each operation). If you enter an invalid operation, it will return Error.

The checker returns errors for the same invalid cases as push_swap.

## Resources
- [Stack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type))
- [Guide: How Push Swap Should Work (42 Cursus GitBook)](https://42-cursus.gitbook.io/guide/2-rank-02/push_swap)

### IA usage
I used AI tools during this project in the following ways:
- To assist in choosing an algorithm.
- To help debug and find bugs that I couldn't identify on my own.
- To suggest improvements to reduce the total number of moves (although these suggestions were not helpful).
- To help write and proofread the README.md, especially for grammar correction.